---
title: Botanical garden
username: nikkom
tags: 9
latitude: 43.22121303362543
longitude: 76.91357426245136
---

## Overview

Almaty Botanical Garden - the main botanical garden, Republican State Enterprise on PCV "Institute of Botany and Phytointroduction" of the Committee of Science of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, was founded in 1932 on an area of 108 hectares. In 1967, it was given the status of a research institution.[1] In 2006, the Botanical Garden was included in the list of "Specially Protected Natural Areas of the Republic of Kazakhstan" (SPNA), which made it possible to stop the further sale of the garden land for construction.

## History

On March 14, 1932 the presidium of the USSR Academy of Sciences decided to organize the Kazakhstan base of the USSR Academy of Sciences with the botanical sector and the zoological sector and the creation of the botanical garden.

On December 15, 1933 the presidium of the USSR Academy of Sciences approved the structure of the Kazakhstan base, which included the botanical sector with the botanical garden.

In 1943 the Soil-Botanical Institute of the Kazakh branch of the USSR Academy of Sciences was established on the basis of the soil and botanical sectors.

In 1945, the Soil-Botanical Institute was divided into the Institute of Soil Science and the Institute of Botany.

In 1946 by the decision of the Presidium of the Kazakh SSR Academy of Sciences on October 5, 1946 the botanical garden was reorganized into an independent research institution of national importance with direct subordination to the Presidium of the Kazakh SSR Academy of Sciences as the Institute - the Republican Botanical Garden.

## Issues and corruption

Despite the multimillion annual funding from the national budget and an increase in its volume allocated for the maintenance of the "Institute of Botany", which includes the Almaty Botanical Garden, some of the garden's problems have not been solved for decades.

In 2007, a botanical scientist, Nugman Aralbay, was appointed director of the "Institute of Botany",[13] who, upon assuming his post, immediately began taking measures to solve the botanical garden's current problems. However, his good intentions were immediately opposed. Nugman Aralbay hired a company through a tender to clean 25 hectares of the garden for only 3 million tenge, while the internal norms approved by the former leadership of the Institute of Botany and KN MES RK, he had to spend 25 million tenge. This fact of savings did not please the higher management of the KN MES, apparently because the savings could have gone for the necessary solution to the unsolved problems of the garden for years. An inspection commission was immediately appointed from Astana on this fact, but, nevertheless, the commission refused to sign a negative act.[14] After that, the pressure on Nugman Aralbay only increased, a series of inspections from the prosecutor's office, financial control and commissions from the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan were arranged. It got to the point that Aralbay was accused of theft of 11 million tenge,[15] according to the report of the ministerial inspection, but no evidence of violations was provided. On September 17, 2008, the economic court ruled that the act of the financial control inspection was illegal and the inspection was conducted with numerous violations. But despite the court's decision, Aralbay was reprimanded several times and fired. Aralbay did not agree with the dismissal, filed a lawsuit, tried to reinstate him in his position, but the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan did not respond.